# A-Comparison-of-Geographic-Interpolation-Methods-for-Spatial-Analysis
A comparison of area weighted and ancillary weighted interpolation methods in the context of market area demographics.

This is a project that I worked on previously during my graduate education, which was meant to facilitate understanding of how these methods allow us to predict the demographics of a geographic area, as well as core concepts in GIS such as classification methods, essential geoprocessing techniques, and spatial data manipulation. The workflow presented here is based on the methodology presented by Dr. Folch, formerly of Florida State University, but re-purposed to demonstrate the skills I have cultivated since my time as a student. The biggest changes I have made include the integration of open source GIS packages for Python including GeoPandas and Shapely, as well as performing all data manipulation and geoprocessing functions from within a Python script. I believe that this is ultimately a more efficient approach than the traditional desktop GIS alternative because the operations can be executed consecutively through one script, rather than being dependant on a user waiting for each step to finish before initiating the next.

In this repository I have included a folder with the data used in the analysis, as well as a folder containing the results. In the results folder are two shapefiles which were produced by the script and contain the data after the script has run. There are also example visualizations that I have produced which exhibit the differences between the two interpolation methods. Additionally, for the purposes of this repository, I have removed the pathways to the input data files and left them as un-sourced variables in the script. Therefore, to actually run the script the user will have to include the paths to the input data files on their computer. I have left comments as placeholders to signify where these paths should be added if a test run of the script is desired. 
